Being single can help you
focus more on other people
rather than concentrating
on yourself.
Being single,
having more time, more flexibility
really helped me
to attain this goal
which was regular pioneering.
I view singleness as a gift
because it opens up opportunities
to serve in a more focused
and more flexible way.
You can study more
and have more time
in the field ministry.
You have more time
for the friends.
You’re more available.
Singleness definitely is a gift
if it’s used
in the right way for Jehovah.
Singleness has
not always been easy.
Sometimes there
comes a period in life,
a certain age,
where people start to ask,
“Anja, did you find somebody?
Are you not yet married?”
And that’s not always easy.
Sometimes people look at you,
even brothers and sisters,
and feel a bit of pity for you maybe
because you’re still single.
That sort of draws your attention away
from what you are doing.
That sometimes can be difficult.
I think I guard
my singleness in the sense
that I look out
for what kind of movies I watch
—not too romantic because it’s easy
to fall into this type of thinking.
So I’ve also always
made sure that I associate
with a range of brothers and sisters
from different age groups
but ones that have
similar sorts of goals
and they have
a very positive outlook.
Following Jesus closely
as a single person,
I think,
is easier than as a couple
because if we reflect on Jesus’ life
—early to rise, late to bed,
fully focused on the ministry,
on his Father
—that, I think,
is easier for a single person.
He was available to help others,
he was available to teach others,
even for children he was available
for them to give comfort.
Jesus was so busy
in his ministry and was focused.
And when you’re single,
you’re able to do that.
You’re able to concentrate more
of your energy
and effort into the ministry,
into serving Jehovah more fully.
It’s not a matter
of just being single;
it’s a matter of how you use it
to support Jehovah’s arrangement.
It doesn’t matter
whatever age we are,
if we are single,
use the circumstances
that you’ve got at the moment
to do whatever you can
because we’re just living
in a momentous time.
There is so much work for us to do.
Just go and pioneer
or do something for Jehovah,
and wait for him
to surprise you.
You can use this time
to do all sorts of different things
in Jehovah’s service at the moment,
there are so many opportunities
opened up for single ones,
including single sisters, now
—going where the need is greater,
moving to different countries,
serving in Bethel.
So while you’ve got
these circumstances,
use the time now
because it’s wonderful.